In Summary:

1) Basis: Core Java(Apache Commons, Common lang, common io, common pool, common fileipload common collections, guava...), JEE, Spring Framework(AOP, MVC, Data, Integration), OOP, design patterns (Spring Boot, Resrful MicroServices)
2) Web Tier: JSP/JSF/JS/JQuery (Angular/BootStrap/React.js)
3) Database: RDBMS/SQL/PL SQL/Hibernate, Mongo DB, Oracle, DB2, SQLServer
4) Testing/Deployment: Maven/Git/Jenkins (Gradle/Ant/SVN/Nexus), (NodeJS, NPM, grunt)
5) Application Server: Tomcat (WebSphere, WebLogic, JBOSS)
6) IDE: Eclipse/IDEA
7) Unix scripting
8) SOLR / ELASTIC Search
9) Messaging: message queues, event listeners, MQ, Tibco
10) cloud: Salesforce, MS Azure, Adobe AWS

#procom java developer

Required Skills:
• Strong object-oriented analysis, design, and programming experience
• Core Java
• J2EE based Web Application experience
• Spring Framework
• Hibernate
• Web/UI Technologies (JSP / JSF / JavaScript / JQuery)
• Maven / Ant
• Git / SVN
• RDBMS (Oracle) , SQL & PL/Sql basics
• Agile/ SCRUM experience
• Application Servers (WebSphere / WebLogic / JBOSS)
• Eclipse / NetBeans
• Unix Shell Scripting

Nice to have:
• Spring AOP, MVC , Boot
• Restful Microservices
• Angular JS / BootStrap
• Spring Integration / Apache Camel
• Security (Secure Auth / OAuth)
• Web Servers: Tomcat, Apache HTTP
• NoSql Database, Mongo DB
• Liferay
• Rules Engine (SMARTS / iLOG / JRules)
• Groovy
• Gradle
• NPM / grunt

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Full Stack Java Developer

Our Banking client is looking for a Senior Full Stack Java Developer to work on a project in Mississauga.

Full Stack Java Developer Mandatory Skills

Solid understanding of enterprise application architecture from front to back
Experience developing high performance server side components.
At least 6-7 years experience using J2EE to develop dynamic enterprise applications
Good experience with caching and performance tuning
Design and develop the core services ensuring strong reliability, scalability and performance
Understanding of good design principles and ability to adhere to complex design
Extensive hand-coding expertise in Core Java / J2EE development
Proficiency with Spring Framework
Strong experience in data modeling and experience with relational and no-sql database. Oracle and MongoDB
Experienced in building and managing REST Apis
Full Stack Java Developer Desired Skills

Experience with SOLR / ELASTIC Search will be plus
Experience with front end technologies. ReactJS experience will be plus.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Java/DevOps Developer Mandatory Skills

Experience in Java and Javascript - 7 years
Experience in Node js development - 2+ years
Experience with deployment of java solutions. - 7 years
Ability to evaluate tools/frameworks and recommend appropriate solutions. - 7 years
Experience in Agile methodology - 2+ years
Excellent verbal and written communication skill
Experience in REST API, Spring, Strongloop and soap - 2+ years
Experience in Jboss websphere UNIx deploying code - 5 years
Experience in CLOud and blueprints - 2 years
Experience in Devops (Jenkins, Nexus, GIt and MAven)- 2+ years
Java/DevOps Developer Desired Skills

Experience in integration with SQL - 3 years
Former TD experience
Experience with large corporations
Experience with Real Time event processing technologies - message queues, event listeners
Knowledge and experience on Wealth Management or Trading execution platforms would be an asset

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Java Technical Lead Job Description

As a part of evolving the IT systems to meet the critical business needs, we are modernizing the Java application suite that services our business partners. We are migrating application to a state of the art environment that provides the agility needed for the business. 
Java Technical Lead Responsibilities

Hands on experience in software design, development and delivery of complex solutions
Accountable for solving for all technical aspects and delivery
Accountable for the articulation of the solutions, to various levels
Provide solutions based on strong technical acumen and technical currency in a variety of technologies: Java framework, Middleware (MQ, Tibco), and Databases (Oracle, DB2, SQLServer)
Exposure to Cloud application platforms (Salesforce, MS Azure, Adobe AWS) and Mobile
Provide strong oversight and ownership of coding efforts, and technical solutions for the team
Provide guidance to onshore, offshore, and near shore development service providers as necessary
Provide strong insurance business acumen, and customer focus
Provide governance for troubleshooting complex system issues as necessary
Demonstrate effective collaboration, communication, presentation, negotiation and influencing skills at various levels from developers to the project managers to the CIO of Insurance
 Java Technical Lead Must Have Skills

4+ years of experience in a technical leadership role with strong hands-on experience as a JAVA/J2EE developer working on Java EE standards and technologies - Core Java, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, EJB, JMS
4+ years of experience in a technical leadership role with strong hands-on experience working on IBM middleware - WebSphere Application Server, WebSphere MQ & Databases technologies 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Deloitte's Digital Integration practice in Toronto is in need of experienced Java developers with functional and technical expertise to join one of our key delivery teams.

Completed undergraduate engineering degree in computer science or equivalent.
3 to 5 years of relevant professional software development experience.
Strong commitment to professional and client service excellence.
Experience working with clients and proven ability to cultivate relationships with clients.
Superior verbal and written communication skills.
Proven ability to deliver technical aspects in all stages of the project development life cycle.
Strong understanding of Agile / Iterative delivery methodology.
Good analytical and problem solving skills to overcome technical challenges to satisfy business requirements.
Strong presentation skills.

Job Qualifications
Further Requirements:
Expertise in Enterprise Java development and Java frameworks including the Spring Framework and Hibernate.
Hands on experience in micro-services design and build.
Clear understanding of Domain driven design, RESTful design patterns for micro services.
Hands on experience in RAML and micro service modelling.
Good understanding and experience developing and consuming SOAP and RESTful web services.
Strong in scripting language and experienced in at least one scripting language e.g. Python, Ruby, BASH, JavaScript.
Strong understanding of Relational Database concepts and experienced in developing SQL scripts.
Experienced in developing middle tiers for web applications.
Familiar with version control and source code tracking tools such as Subversion and GitHub.
Ability to work in fast paced Agile projects.
Strong understanding of Object Oriented and Functional design and programming.
Experienced in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle.
In addition, the following would be considered an asset for this position:
Experience developing on cloud platforms like Spring Cloud, Pivotal Cloud Foundry, Heroku and Red Hat OpenShift.
Experience developing with Spring Boot.
Experience in building and packaging contents with Docker, Docker Compose.
Previous full time experience as a consultant within a consulting firm.
Experience working on large enterprise projects for Banks and/or Financial institutions.
Exposure to multiple middleware platform (IBM / TIBCO / Oracle ESB / webMethods)
Experience in business application design, Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and implementation projects for large IT organizations using systems integration methods and technologies including experience with web services
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Skills:
excellent verbal and written communication skills (Must Have)
Java J2EE (Must Have)
JavaScript (Must Have)
Spring Framework dev. exp. (Must Have)
RESTful APIs in a JSP page (Must Have)
MVC (Must Have)
eCommerce - Web on-line buying technologies (Must Have)
Agile Scrum meetings/release teams (Must Have)
MySQL, MSSQL (Nice to Have)
Jira,Bamboo,Atlassian,Maven,Stash products (Nice to Have)
Apache (Nice to Have)
Hyrbris development (Nice to Have)

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Responsibilities:

Working with continuous integration
Web design using HTML, JavaScript (JQuery), CSS
Develop, implement, and maintain Java based components and interfaces
Contribute in all phases of the development life-cycle
Support continuous improvement by investigating alternatives and technologies.
Must Have:

College or Bachelor's Degree, computer science or related field
Minimum 4 years of practical experience
Strong Java background, including experience with Java EE (Java, EJB, JPA - JDBC, JMS, XML, SOAP, XSD, WSDL, SSL, JAXB, Java EE Design patterns)
Experience with Eclipse, Spring 10, PhoneGap mobile development
Experience with WebLogic Application server or any other Web/Application server
JUnit, log4j, subversion, cruise control/Jenkins, check style
Excellent verbal and written communication skills in both a technical and functional role
Java 1.5, JavaScript (JQuery/Prototype), HTML, CSS, XML
Work extremely well in a team/agile environment
Enthusiasm, flexibility, commitment, positive attitude
Development: JEE certified development environment. Extensive hands on experience with Enterprise Java Development
Nice to Have:

Excellent SQL skills for SQL Server
UI Design patterns and principals

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
